# Random Polynomial
This technique code example is a very simple random polynomial generator.  The [68k:randPoly(](68k:randpoly.html) function automatically creates a random polynomial of a given degree, however, the polynomial is not promised to be factorable.  This routine will generate a factorable polynomial of a given degree using simple string manipulation.

## The Code

```
factprac(deg)
Prgm
rand(deg)→b
"1"→str
For a,1,b
str&"(x+rand(20)-10)"→str
EndFor
Pause expand(expr(str)randPoly(x,deg-b))
EndPrgm
```

## Explanation

The routine uses three variables, `deg`, `b`, and `str`.  First, the user defines `deg` initially which is the degree of the random polynomial.  Using the [68k:rand(](68k:rand.html) command, the routine selects a number between one and `deg`.  This is stored into `b`.  This will be the number of rational roots the random polynomial will have.

The next part, including the [68k:For](68k:for.html) loop, is what makes the polynomial factorable.  Here is the excerpt:
```
"1"→str
For a,1,b
str&"(x+rand(20)-10)"→str
EndFor
```

What we are wanting to do is create a string that represents the polynomial in factored form, for example (x+3)(x-2).  We initialize the string (which is `str`) with a "1" since that will not interfere with the math later[^1].  The For loop loops the number of rational roots we want determined by `b`.  Each time the loop goes through, another factor is created and is combined with the current string with the [&](68k:append.html) command.

Finally, it is time to display the creation.  We use the [68k:Pause](68k:pause.html) command because for higher degree polynomials, the resulting polynomial might run off the screen.
```
Pause expand(expr(str)randPoly(x,deg-b))
```

`str` is the string of factors, however, this number of factors will probably not be sufficient for the degree wanted since `b` might be less than `deg`.  We therefore multiply the string with a random polynomial generated by [68k:randPoly(](68k:randpoly.html) in order to achieve the desired degree.  [68k:expr(](68k:expr.html) turns the string into an expression that can be worked with.  Finally, [68k:expand(](68k:expand.html) will expand the factored polynomial into standard form.

The resulting polynomial can then be used for practice or something.  The routine is meant to make a polynomial that can be factored, but perhaps not entirely factorable.  If you want a program that generates a fully factorable polynomial, play with the code a little and try to figure it out!

## Application

This routine demonstrates minor string manipulation.  This shows how you can use various string commands, such as [&](68k:append.html) and [68k:expr(](68k:expr.html) in order to accomplish a task.  It also demonstrates how to initialize a string depending on the purpose of the result.

## Alternative

A downside to the above code is that it will only intentionally yield integer roots.  The code below will also yield fractional rational roots, occasionally:

```
factprac(deg)
Prgm
"1"→str
rand(deg)→b
For a,1,b
If rand(10)-5≤0 Then
"("→c
Else
"((rand(5)+1)"→c
EndIf
str&c&"x+rand(20)-10)"→str
EndFor
Pause expand(expr(str)randPoly(x,deg-b))
EndPrgm
```
[^1]: 1(x+3)(x-2) = (x+3)(x-2), so this is actually very helpful for optimization purposes
